Trees.
Normally, I would say.
I don't know, in an interview, I don't
know if I'd ask something about trees
unless they're a pretty senior engineer
cuz it's not something we think about.
This next problem is one that,
I failed it.
I failed it hard,
cuz I never thought about trees.
But once I understood how
to solve the problem,
really it changed my perspective
on the way trees work.
I'm like, okay, I get it.
I get how to iterate through a tree.
But until I was forced to do it and
forced to fail, I didn't learn anything.
I was like, yeah, trees, I know trees.
The DOM is a tree, cool.
When am I have to use this?
But until I got this question and failed
it, I didn't force myself to learn it.
But once you learn trees,
you kind of, the knowledge you
learn is applicable to any tree.
Cuz trees are, the way you traverse a tree
is generally gonna be the same way.
There's different types of trees,
which I'm definitely not gonna go into.
I pretty sure there's another
Frontend Master's course which talks more
about tree algorithms and different types.
We're not gonna do that today.
We're just gonna do the most basic tree.
But gonna start off with a tree.
If you didn't know anything about trees,
which I didn't at the time,
all trees have two properties.
They have a root, where the tree begins,
and they have nodes.
And to break up those nodes,
the child, there's are parents and
there are children.
The children, of course,
are the children of the parent node.
So the root, everything
underneath the root is the child.
But of course the root
itself is a node as well.
And the way you wanna think about
this programmatically is the parent.
If you thought, I don't know,
parent.children?
How would you represent the position
of the children on a tree?
I know, it's a little tricky, but
what if we said this was zero and one?
What if I had three children?
It'd be zero, one, two.
Zero, one, two, three, four.
That's how we would jump the order of the
tree if you're reading from left to right,
and that's generally
how you think about it.
Programmatically, we'd say,
that's an array.
So think of this in terms
of JavaScript objects.
Parent.children is an array of items.
So child 1 at index 0 is gonna be
some node, it's gonna be this node.
Child 2 is gonna be this node,
and so on and so forth.
This will be applicable for
this next question.
So what's a tree that we all know and
love?
I've said it like four times already.
>> DOM.
>> The DOM, yes, it's a tree.
And what does the DOM have for properties?
You have a root, that's HTML,
it's always gonna start with HTML.
Then you have maybe a body,
a title, a head.
It's a tree, so what does every tree have?
Give you a hint.
Child nodes.
And you've probably actually used that, we
might have used that in an early example.
.children is how to get
the child node to the parent.
So every HTML element has a children,
it has a parent you can guarantee that.
If I wanna Iterate through an array.
So if I click something and
I wanna say, what did I click on?
Cuz event's not working or something.
I would just say .parent,
.parent, .parent, .parent.
I'd just iterate up.
If I wanna iterate down,
I say that children at position zero,
dot children opposition one and
that way I'm moving through a tree.
I will give you fair warning,
this one is was challenging.
But again, i think it's helpful because
once you understand the solution,
this problem you understand
how to iterate through a tree.
Using Dom as a good exposure,
that if you understand Dom you understand,
i can iterate through a binary search
tree or I can iterate through a vl tree.
Or many different types of trees.
So for this particular problem,
I have drawn it out.
You're given two DOM trees.
So think of, I don't know, two different
copies of webpage if you wanted to.
Or let's say you offloaded your DOM,
your virtual DOM, into a web worker,
and you wanna iterate through,
you wanna manipulate them both So
you can use HTML directly on those.
But you know,
we're one element isn't a tree.
So you have a DOM tree.
It's represents things that are just HTML.
Let's say you have a clone
of that exact same tree.
How would you get the path
to a given element?
So if I give you the location
of a button One domTree,
how would you get to that
button in an identical domTree.
So I'll say the more formal way we
have two identical boundaries A and B.
For DOM tree A, we have location and
element creative function to find
that same element in DOM tree B.
For this one, I will give you 20 minutes
and I'll definitely help you out.
This one is tricky, but
think of what we know already.
What do we know about DOM tree a?
We know that it has a root, fine.
But we're not given the root.
We're given an element to find,
and we're given the other tree.
So how would we get to the root,
given an element, any node?
So given this node how
do we get up to here?
>> Recursion from the parents.
>> Exactly, you can use recursion.
I would just say a loop and
just walk back over.
Because this node we know for
a fact has a parent.
And then this node has a parent and
this node has a parent.
So you can walk back up the tree
just calling the parent every time.
I'll give you another hint in
another five minutes or so,
but that should start
you on the right path.
All right.
Right, mid problem hint since
this one is a Challenging,
especially if you never
thought about trees.
But let's think about the things we know.
We know we're probably gonna
need some sort of function.
And that's gonna take an elements and then
it's gonna take that other tree, okay.
But ultimately what are we trying to do?
And if I say it, you'll be like,
We're trying to go up the tree.
We have this element and
then we have this other tree.
That's what we know.
We're trying to get to here, essentially.
And then, we can replay that
same path to get to here.
So that would be a reverse path algorithm.
So essentially you start here,
how would we walk up the tree?
We would call dot parent.
And then we call the parent and
then we call the parent.
If there is no parent, we're at the root.
So if we can store that.
We can then replay that, reversing it
to walk back down the tree to here.
Remember that every element has
a parent and it has children.
That's the hint I'll give you.
So I'll say, you want to iterate
up until you hit the root node.
And then you want to jump back,
go back down.